Layer 4
TCP (Transmission Control Protocol)
UDP (user Datagram Protocol)

Layer 4:
    Provides transparent transfer of data between end hosts.
    Provides (or doesnt provide) various services to applications:
        Reliable data transfer
        error recovery
        data sequencing
        flow control
    Provides layer 4 addressing (port numbers)
        identify the application layer Protocol
        provides session multiplexing

whats is a session:
    an exchange of data between two or more communucating devices.
Destination port:
    identifies the application layer protocol (ex. tcp 80 = HTTP)
Source port:
    randomly selected by PC1, helps identify the session
Well-known port numbers: 0-1023
Registered port numbers: 1024-49151
Ephemeral/private/dynamic port numbers: 49152-65535

TCP:
    is connecteion oriented:
        before actually sending data to the destination host, the two hosts communicate to establish a connection. Once the connection is established, the data exchange begins.
    provides reliable communication:
        the host must acknowledge that it reseived each tcp segnment
        if the segment is not acknowledged, it is sent again.
    provides sequencing:
        sequence numbers in the header allow destination hosts to put segments in the correct order even if they arrive out of order
    provides flow control:
        the destination host can tell the source host to increase/decrease the rate that data is sent

TCP Three-Way Handshake:
    1. PC1 will send a TCP segment to SRV1 with a SYN (syncronization) flag set, meaning that bit is set to one
    2. SRV1 will reply by sending a TCP segment with a SYN and ACK flag set. Both bits are now set to 1.
    3. PC1 will send a TCP segment with the ACK bit set.
    Now the three-way handshake is complete and the connection is established. 

TCP Four-Way Handshake:
    1. PC1 send s a TCP segment to SRV1 with the FIN flag set.
    2. SRV1 responds with an ACK.
    3. SRV1 then sends its own FIN.
    4. PC1 sends an ACK in reponse to SRV1 FIN. 
    The connection is now terminated.

UPD:
    is not connection-oriented:
        the sending host does not establish a connection before sending
    does not provide reliable communication
        acknowledgements are not used when sending with udp. 
    does not provide sequencing
        there is no sequence number field in the udp header. 
    does not provide flow control

